---

layout: post
title: "Maven笔记"
date: 2018-12-04

---

# Hello world
```bash
mvn archetype:generate -DarchetypeGroupId=org.apache.maven.archetypes -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart -DarchetypeVersion=1.3
# Generating project in Interactive mode
cd my-app
mvn package
java -cp target/my-app-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar com.mycompany.app.App
```

# Syntax
```man
mvn [options] [<goal(s)>] [<phase(s)>]
```

# Build Lifecycle

There are three built-in build lifecycles: `default`, `clean` and `site`. 

The `default` lifecycle handles your project deployment, the `clean` lifecycle handles project cleaning, while the `site` lifecycle handles the creation of your project's site documentation.

**A Build Lifecycle is Made Up of Phases**
Each of these build lifecycles is defined by a different list of build phases, wherein a build phase represents a stage in the lifecycle.

**A Build Phase is Made Up of Plugin Goals**
However, even though a build phase is responsible for a specific step in the build lifecycle, the manner in which it carries out those responsibilities may vary. And this is done by declaring the plugin goals bound to those build phases.

# Maven Phases
常见的 lifecycle phases.

- **validate:** validate the project is correct and all necessary information is available.
- **compile:** compile the source code of the project.
- **test:** test the compiled source code using a suitable unit testing framework. These tests should not require the code be packaged or deployed
- **package**: take the compiled code and package it in its distributable format, such as a JAR.
- **integration-test:** process and deploy the package if necessary into an environment where integration tests can be run.
- **verify:** run any checks to verify the package is valid and meets quality criteria.
- **install:** install the package into the local repository, for use as a dependency in other projects locally.
- **deploy:** done in an integration or release environment, copies the final package to the remote repository for sharing with other developers and projects.

An interesting thing to note is that phases and goals may be executed in sequence.

```bash
mvn clean dependency:copy-dependencies package
```

# POM
A Project Object Model or POM is the fundamental unit of work in Maven. It is an XML file that contains information about the project and configuration details used by Maven to build the project. 

## Super POM
The Super POM is Maven's default POM.

# Reference
> [Guides - maven.apache.org](https://maven.apache.org/guides/)