---

layout: post
title: "Docker笔记"
date: 2019-08-19
tags: [linux]

---

A container is launched by running an image.

An image is an executable package that includes everything needed to run an application -- the code, a runtime, libraries, environment variables, and configuration files.


```shell
## Display Docker version and info
docker version
docker info
```

# Dockerfile
`Dockerfile` defines what goes on in the environment inside your container.

Docker can build images automatically by reading the instructions from a `Dockerfile`. 

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.7.4-alpine3.10
WORKDIR /app
COPY . /app
RUN pip install ipython
RUN pip install --trusted-host pypi.python.org -r requirements.txt
CMD ["ipython"]
```

```shell
docker build app .
```

```shell
# Copy file from local machine to docker
docker run -it -v `pwd`:/files alpine
```

The docker build command builds an image from a `Dockerfile` and a **context**. 

Note that each instruction is run independently, and causes a new image to be created - so `RUN cd /tmp` will not have any effect on the next instructions.

The instruction is **not** case-sensitive. However, convention is for them to be UPPERCASE to distinguish them from arguments more easily.

A `Dockerfile` must start with a `FROM` instruction.
The `FROM` instruction specifies the `Base Image` from which you are building.

**Difference between Docker Create, Start and Run**

`Create` adds a writeable container on top of your image and sets it up for running whatever command you specified in your CMD. The container ID is reported back but it’s not started.

`Start` will start any stopped containers. This includes freshly created containers.

`Run` is a combination of create and start. It creates the container and starts it.