---\n
layout: post
title: "GO"
date: 2020-03-25\n
---

# Hello World

```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	fmt.Printf("hello, world\n")
}
```

```bash
go build hello.go
./hello
```

# Package


# Exported names
In `Go`, a name is exported if it begins with a **capital letter**. For example, `Pizza` is an exported name, as is `Pi`, which is exported from the math package.

`pizza` and `pi` do not start with a capital letter, so they are **not** exported.

# Functions

```go
func add(x int, y int) int {
	return x + y
}
```

# Variables
The `var` statement declares a list of variables; as in function argument lists, the type is last.

```go
var c, python, java bool

var i, j int = 1, 2
```

Inside a function, the `:=` short assignment statement can be used in place of a var declaration with implicit type.

Outside a function, every statement begins with a keyword (`var`, `func`, and so on) and so the `:=` construct is not available.

## Basic types
```go
bool

string

int  int8  int16  int32  int64
uint uint8 uint16 uint32 uint64 uintptr

byte // alias for uint8

rune // alias for int32
     // represents a Unicode code point

float32 float64

complex64 complex128
```

## Constants
```go
const World = "World"
```

# Loop
Go has **only** **one** looping construct, the `for` loop.

The basic for loop has three components separated by semicolons:

- the init statement: executed before the first iteration
- the condition expression: evaluated before every iteration
- the post statement: executed at the end of every iteration

```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	sum := 0
	for i := 0; i < 10; i++ {
		sum += i
	}
	fmt.Println(sum)
}
```

# If
```go
if v := math.Pow(x, n); v < lim {
	return v
} else {
	return 1
}
```

# Switch
A switch statement is a shorter way to write a sequence of `if - else ` statements.

Go's switch is like the one in `C`, `C++`,` Java`, `JavaScript`, and `PHP`, except that `Go` only runs the selected case, **not all** the cases that follow. 

# Defer
A defer statement defers the execution of a **function** until the surrounding function returns.

Deferred function calls are pushed onto a stack.

# Pointer

# Struct

Pointer to structs

To access the field `X` of a `struct` when we have the struct pointer `p` we could write `(*p).X`. However, that notation is cumbersome, so the language permits us instead to write just `p.X`, without the explicit dereference.

```go
var (
	v1 = Vertex{1, 2}  // has type Vertex
	v2 = Vertex{X: 1}  // Y:0 is implicit
	v3 = Vertex{}      // X:0 and Y:0
	p  = &Vertex{1, 2} // has type *Vertex
)
```

# Array
```go
q := []int{2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13}
```

The capacity of a slice is the number of elements in the underlying array, counting from the first element in the slice.

The zero value of a slice is `nil`.

# Map
```go
var m map[string]Vertex

func main() {
	m = make(map[string]Vertex)
	m["Bell Labs"] = Vertex{
		40.68433, -74.39967,
	}
	fmt.Println(m["Bell Labs"])
}
```

Map literals

```go
var m = map[string]Vertex{
	"Bell Labs": Vertex{
		40.68433, -74.39967,
	},
	"Google": Vertex{
		37.42202, -122.08408,
	},
}
```

Delete an element:
```go
delete(m, key)
```

Test that a key is present with a two-value assignment:

If key is in m, ok is `true`. If not, ok is `false`.

```go
	v, ok := m["Answer"]
	fmt.Println("The value:", v, "Present?", ok)
```

# Method
Go does not have classes. However, you can define methods on types.

A method is a function with a special receiver argument.

The receiver appears in its own argument list between the func keyword and the method name.

```go
type Vertex struct {
	X, Y float64
}

func (v Vertex) Abs() float64 {
	return math.Sqrt(v.X*v.X + v.Y*v.Y)
}

func main() {
	v := Vertex{3, 4}
	fmt.Println(v.Abs())
}

```

Remember: a method is just a function with a receiver argument.

You can declare a method on non-struct types, too.

# Interface

```go
type Abser interface {
	Abs() float64
}
```

There is no explicit declaration of intent, no `"implements"` keyword.


```go
t := i.(T)
```
This statement asserts that the interface value `i` holds the concrete type `T` and assigns the underlying `T` value to the variable t.

Type Switch

```go
switch v := i.(type) {
case T:
    // here v has type T
case S:
    // here v has type S
default:
    // no match; here v has the same type as i
}
```

The declaration in a type switch has the same syntax as a type assertion` i.(T)`, but the specific type `T` is replaced with the keyword `type`.

One of the most ubiquitous interfaces is Stringer defined by the `fmt` package.

```go
type Stringer interface {
    String() string
}
```


