---

layout: post
title: "Epub"
date: 2021-08-03

---

`EPUB` is an e-book file format that uses the `.epub` file extension. 

The `EPUB` format is implemented as an archive file consisting of `XHTML` files carrying the content, along with images and other supporting files.

- EPUB 2.0 - 2007
  + Open Publication Structure *(OPS)* 
  + Open Packaging Format *(OPF)*
  + Open Container Format *(OCF)* 
- EPUB 3.0 - 2011
  + MathML
- EPUB 3.2 - 2019
  + WOFF 2

- `OPS` -  contains the formatting of its content.
- `OPF` - describes the structure of the `.epub` file in `XML`.
- `OCF` - collects all files as a `ZIP` archive.

`EPUB` internally uses `XHTML` or `DTBook` *(an XML standard provided by the DAISY Consortium)* to represent the text and structure of the content document, and a subset of `CSS` to provide layout and formatting. `XML` is used to create the document manifest, table of contents, and `EPUB` metadata. Finally, the files are bundled in a `zip` file as a packaging format.

# OPS
An EPUB file uses `XHTML` 1.1 to construct the content of a book.

The mimetype for `XHTML` documents in EPUB is `application/xhtml+xml`.

Styling and layout are performed using a subset of CSS 2.0, referred to as OPS Style Sheets. 

custom properties: `oeb-page-head`, `oeb-page-foot`, and `oeb-column-number`.

Font-embedding can be accomplished using the `@font-face` property, as well as including the font file in the `OPF`'s manifest.

The mimetype for `CSS` documents in `EPUB` is `text/css`.

`EPUB` also requires that `PNG`, `JPEG`, `GIF`, and `SVG` images be supported using the mimetypes `image/png`, `image/jpeg`, `image/gif`, `image/svg+xml`. 

`Unicode` is **required**.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>Pride and Prejudice</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    ...
  </body>
</html>
```

# OPF
The `OPF` specification's purpose is to *"...[define] the mechanism by which the various components of an OPS publication are tied together and provides additional structure and semantics to the electronic publication."* This is accomplished by two `XML` files with the extensions `.opf` and `.ncx`.


## .opf
The `OPF` file, traditionally named `content.opf`, houses the `EPUB` book's metadata, file manifest, and linear reading order.

This file has a root element `package` and four child elements: `metadata`, `manifest`, `spine`, and `guide`. Furthermore, the `package` node must have the `unique-identifier` attribute. The `.opf` file's `mimetype` is `application/oebps-package+xml`.

### metadata

The `metadata` element contains all the metadata information for a particular `EPUB` file. Three `metadata` tags are required: `title`, `language`, and `identifier`.

### manifest

The `manifest` element lists all the files contained in the package. Each file is represented by an `item` element, and has the attributes `id`, `href`, `media-type`.

All `XHTML` (content documents), stylesheets, images or other media, embedded fonts, and the `NCX` file should be listed here. Only the `.opf` file itself, the `container.xml`, and the mimetype files should not be included.

### spine

The `spine` element lists all the `XHTML` content documents in their linear reading order.

Also, any content document that can be reached through linking or the table of contents must be listed as well. 

The `toc` attribute of `spine` must contain the id of the `NCX` file listed in the `manifest`. Each `itemref` element's `idref` is set to the id of its respective content document.

### guide

The `guide` element is an optional element.


```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<package version="2.0" xmlns="http://www.idpf.org/2007/opf" unique-identifier="BookId">

  <metadata xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" xmlns:opf="http://www.idpf.org/2007/opf">
    <dc:title>Pride and Prejudice</dc:title>
    <dc:language>en</dc:language>
    <dc:identifier id="BookId" opf:scheme="ISBN">123456789X</dc:identifier>
    <dc:creator opf:file-as="Austen, Jane" opf:role="aut">Jane Austen</dc:creator>
  </metadata>

  <manifest>
    <item id="chapter1" href="chapter1.xhtml" media-type="application/xhtml+xml"/>
    <item id="appendix" href="appendix.xhtml" media-type="application/xhtml+xml"/>
    <item id="stylesheet" href="style.css" media-type="text/css"/>
    <item id="ch1-pic" href="ch1-pic.png" media-type="image/png"/>
    <item id="myfont" href="css/myfont.otf" media-type="application/x-font-opentype"/>
    <item id="ncx" href="toc.ncx" media-type="application/x-dtbncx+xml"/>
  </manifest>

  <spine toc="ncx">
    <itemref idref="chapter1" />
    <itemref idref="appendix" />
  </spine>

  <guide>
    <reference type="loi" title="List Of Illustrations" href="appendix.xhtml#figures" />
  </guide>

</package>
```

## .ncx
The `NCX` file *(Navigation Control file for XML)*, traditionally named `toc.ncx`, contains the hierarchical table of contents for the `EPUB` file.

The specification for `NCX` is not a part of the `EPUB` specification. 

The `NCX` file has a mimetype of `application/x-dtbncx+xml`.

# OCF

An `EPUB` file is a group of files that conform to the `OPS/OPF` standards and are wrapped in a `ZIP` file.

The `OCF` specifies how to organize these files in the `ZIP`, and defines two additional files that **must** be included.

- The `mimetype` file contains the string `application/epub+zip`.
- A folder named `META-INF`, which contains the required file `container.xml`. 