---

layout: post
title: "Presto"
date: 2021-04-23

---

`Presto` is an open source distributed SQL query engine.

# Install 

```
brew install presto
```

# Concepts

## Server Types

### Coordinator

- parsing statements
- planning queries
- managing Presto worker nodes

Coordinators communicate with workers and clients using a `REST API`.

### Worker

- executing tasks
- processing data

Worker nodes fetch data from connectors and exchange intermediate data with each other. 

## Data Sources

### Connector

You can think of a connector the same way you think of a driver for a database.

### Catalog

A Presto catalog contains schemas and references a data source via a connector.

### Schema

Schemas are a way to organize tables.

Together, a catalog and schema define a set of tables that can be queried.

### Table

This is the same as in any relational database.

The mapping from source data to tables is defined by the `connector`.

## Query Execution Model

`Presto` executes `SQL` statements and turns these statements into queries that are executed across a distributed cluster of coordinator and workers.

### Statement
### Query
### Stage

When `Presto` executes a query, it does so by breaking up the execution into a hierarchy of stages.

### Task

A stage is implemented as a series of tasks distributed over a network of Presto workers.

### Split

Tasks operate on splits which are sections of a larger data set.

### Driver

Tasks contain one or more parallel drivers. 

Drivers act upon data and combine operators to produce output that is then aggregated by a task and then delivered to another task in another stage.

### Operator

An operator consumes, transforms and produces data.

### Exchange

Exchanges transfer data between Presto nodes for different stages of a query.

# Functions & Operators

## Logical

- `AND`
- `OR`
- `NOT`

## Comparison

`>` `<`
`>=` `<=`
`=` `<>` `!=`